TiDB Cloud supports CMEK encryption (#12993)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-encrypt-cmek.md

### Step 2. Create a new project and enable CMEK

1. Using TiDB Cloud Open API, create a new project and enable AWS CMEK. 
2. Configure the KMS Key ARN for the specified region (e.g., us-east-1) under this project using TiDB Cloud Open API.

> **Note:**
>
> Currently the configuration is not available on UI, user can configure the project using TiDB cloud’s OpenAPI restful interface.

### Step 3. Create a cluster

Create an AWS Dedicated Cluster under the project created in step 1. You need to ensure that the region where the cluster is located is the same as that in step 2.

> **Note:**
>
> When CMEK is enabled, the EBS volumes used by the nodes of the cluster and the S3 used for the cluster backups are encrypted using CMEK.

## Rotate your CMEK

You can configure [automatic CMEK rotation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/rotate-keys.html) on AWS KMS. AWS automatic CMEK rotation does not require you to update the TiDB Cloud Encryption at Rest project settings, including the CMEK ID.

## Revoke and restore CMEK

> In the case PingCAP’s access to the CMEK needs to be temporarily revoked, the user needs to follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to temporarily revoke TiDB Cloud's access to CMEK, follow these steps:
```

> 1. The user needs to revoke the corresponding permissions and update the KMS Key policy on the AWS KMS console.
> 2. Pause all the clusters under the project on the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the AWS KMS console, revoke the corresponding permissions and update the KMS Key policy.
2. On the TiDB Cloud console, pause all the clusters in the project.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > If you are just revoking the CMEK on AWS KMS, this will not affect the running cluster. If you have revoked the CMEK, when you pause the cluster and then restore the cluster, the cluster will not be able to restore normally because it can not access the CMEK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> After you revoke CMEK on AWS KMS, your running clusters are not affected. However, when you pause a cluster and then restore the cluster, the cluster will not be able to restore normally because it cannot access CMEK.
```

> Steps to restore CMEK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After revoking TiDB Cloud's access to CMEK, if you need to restore the access, follow these steps:
```

> 1. You need to restore the CMEK access policy on the AWS KMS console.
> 2. You need to restore all clusters under the project on the TiDB cloud console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the AWS KMS console, restore the CMEK access policy.
2. On the TiDB Cloud console, restore all clusters in the project.
```

---
title: Encryption at Rest using Customer-Managemented Encryption Keys
summary: Learn about how to use CMEK in TiDB Cloud.
---

# Encryption at Rest using Customer-Managemented Encryption Keys

Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK) allows you to protect your static data in a TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier using a cryptographic key that is completely controlled by you. This key is called as the CMEK key.

Once you have configured the CMEK capability for a project, all clusters created within this project will encrypt their static data using this CMEK. Additionally, any backup data created by these clusters will also be encrypted using the same key. If you do not enable CMEK, TiDB Cloud will use an escrow key to encrypt all data of your cluster at rest.

> **Note:**
>

> > Currently, this feature is only available upon request. If you need to try out this feature, contact [support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Author: After CMEK is enabled, the stored data has been encrypted.
1. Revoke and restore are mainly used to ensure data security when the customer key is leaked or in other abnormal states.
2. Enabling CMEK is a more secure practice. Customers are less likely to reduce data security to a lower state. In addition, for clusters already encrypted with CMEK, disabling CMEK will consume a lot of read and write resources. Therefore, the product design does not consider providing the ability to disable, which is also consistent with industry practice.

> > Currently, this feature is only available upon request. If you need to try out this feature, contact [support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 2: Got it. Thanks for your explanation.

                ],
                "Resource": "*"
            },
            ... // user's own admin access to KMS
        ]
    }
    ```

> **Note:**
>
> - `<pingcap-account>` is the account where customer clusters run in. It will be provided to the customer separately through documentation or other means at the time of application.
> - For EBS-related policy in the first block, refer to [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/conditions-kms.html#conditions-kms-caller-account).
> - For S3-related policy in the second block, refer to [AWS blog](https://repost.aws/knowledge-center/s3-bucket-access-default-encryption).

### Step 2. Create a new project and enable CMEK

1. Create a new project and enable AWS CMEK using the [Create a project](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#tag/Project/operation/CreateProject) endpoint of TiDB Cloud API.

    Make sure the `aws_cmek_enabled` field is set to `true`.

2. Configure the KMS Key ARN for the specified region (e.g., us-east-1) under this project using the [Configure AWS CMEK](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#tag/Cluster/operation/CreateAwsCmek) endpoint of TiDB Cloud API.

> > **Note:**
> >
> > Currently the configuration is not available on the TiDB Cloud console. You can only configure the project using TiDB Cloud API.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 2. Configure the KMS Key ARN for the specified region (e.g., us-east-1) under this project using the [Configure AWS CMEK](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#tag/Cluster/operation/CreateAwsCmek) endpoint of TiDB Cloud API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Configure the KMS Key ARN for the specified region (for example, us-east-1) under this project using the [Configure AWS CMEK](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#tag/Cluster/operation/CreateAwsCmek) endpoint of TiDB Cloud API.
```

### Step 3. Create a cluster

> Create a Dedicated Tier cluster hosted on AWS under the project created in Step 1. You need to ensure that the region where the cluster is located is the same as that in Step 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a Dedicated Tier cluster hosted on AWS under the project created in Step 1. Ensure that the region where the cluster is located is the same as that in Step 2.
```

> **Note:**
>
> When CMEK is enabled, the EBS volumes used by the nodes of the cluster and the S3 used for the cluster backups are encrypted using CMEK.

## Rotate your CMEK

> You can configure [automatic CMEK rotation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/rotate-keys.html) on AWS KMS. AWS automatic CMEK rotation does not require you to update the TiDB Cloud Encryption at Rest project settings, including the CMEK ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure [automatic CMEK rotation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/rotate-keys.html) on AWS KMS. With this rotation enabled, you do not need to update the Encryption at Rest project settings in TiDB Cloud, including the CMEK ID.
```

## Revoke and restore CMEK

If you need to temporarily revoke TiDB Cloud's access to CMEK, follow these steps:

1. On the AWS KMS console, revoke the corresponding permissions and update the KMS Key policy.

> 2. On the TiDB Cloud console, pause all the clusters in the project.

Reviewer 2: Is this a must step? What if I just want to disable CMEK but keep the clusters running?

Author: This is a necessary step, please see the note information.
"After you revoke CMEK on AWS KMS, your running clusters are not affected"

---
title: Encryption at Rest Using Customer-Managed Encryption Keys
summary: Learn about how to use Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK) in TiDB Cloud.
---

# Encryption at Rest Using Customer-Managed Encryption Keys

Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK) lets you protect your static data in a TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier using a cryptographic key that is completely controlled by you. This key is known as the CMEK key.

> Once you enable CMEK for a project, all clusters created within this project encrypt their static data using this CMEK key, and any backup data produced by these clusters is also encrypted using the same key. If you do not enable CMEK, TiDB Cloud uses an escrow key to encrypt all data in your cluster at rest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you enable CMEK for a project, all clusters created within this project encrypt their static data using this CMEK key, and any backup data produced by these clusters is also encrypted using the same key. If you do not enable CMEK, TiDB Cloud uses an escrow key to encrypt all data in your cluster at rest.
```

    To make the TiDB cluster function as expected, you need to grant certain permissions to the TiDB account for accessing KMS. Note that this feature is in the development stage and the policy requirement could be subject to change as future features might require more permissions. Here’re the required permissions for supported features at present:

    ```json
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Id": "cmek-policy",
        "Statement": [
            // EBS-related policy
            {
                "Sid": "Allow access through EBS for all principals in the account that are authorized to use EBS",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "AWS": "*"
                },
                "Action": [
                    "kms:Encrypt",
                    "kms:Decrypt",
                    "kms:ReEncrypt*",
                    "kms:GenerateDataKey*",
                    "kms:CreateGrant",
                    "kms:DescribeKey"
                ],
                "Resource": "*",
                "Condition": {
                    "StringEquals": {
                        "kms:CallerAccount": "<pingcap-account>",

>                         "kms:ViaService": "ec2.us-west-2.amazonaws.com"

Reviewer 3: The region should not be hard-coded here, user need to specify the region where they want to create cluster in policy:
```suggestion
                        "kms:ViaService": "ec2.<region>.amazonaws.com"
```
If customer don't care about the regions, they can use following condition block:
```json
            "Condition": {
                "StringEquals": {
                    "kms:CallerAccount": "<pingcap-account>"
                },
                "StringLike": {
                    "kms:ViaService": "ec2.*.amazonaws.com"
                }
            }
```

                    }
                }
            },
            // S3-related policy
            {
                "Sid": "Allow TiDB cloud role to use KMS to store encrypted backup to S3",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<pingcap-account>:root"
                },
                "Action": [
                    "kms:Decrypt",
                    "kms:GenerateDataKey"
                ],
                "Resource": "*"
            },
            ... // user's own admin access to KMS
        ]
    }
    ```

> **Note:**
>

> > - `<pingcap-account>` is the account where your clusters run in. If you do not know the account, contact [support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - `<pingcap-account>` is the account where your clusters run in. If you do not know the account, contact [support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
> - `<region>` is the region where you want to create your cluster.
```

Reviewer 3: > If you do not want to specify a region, replace `<region>` with a wildcard `*`.
If you do not want to specify a single region, you can create a `StringLike` clause and use a wildcard `*` for all regions.

Notice `*` in `StringEquals` doesn't work, it need to be in a `StringLike` block.

Reviewer: can you give an example for `StringLike` clause?

                    "kms:ReEncrypt*",
                    "kms:GenerateDataKey*",
                    "kms:CreateGrant",
                    "kms:DescribeKey"
                ],
                "Resource": "*",
                "Condition": {
                    "StringEquals": {
                        "kms:CallerAccount": "<pingcap-account>",
                        "kms:ViaService": "ec2.<region>.amazonaws.com"
                    }
                }
            },
            // S3-related policy
            {
                "Sid": "Allow TiDB cloud role to use KMS to store encrypted backup to S3",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<pingcap-account>:root"
                },
                "Action": [
                    "kms:Decrypt",
                    "kms:GenerateDataKey"
                ],
                "Resource": "*"
            },
            ... // user's own admin access to KMS
        ]
    }
    ```

> **Note:**
>
> - `<pingcap-account>` is the account where your clusters run in. If you do not know the account, contact [support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

> > - `<region>` is the region where you want to create your cluster, for example, `us-west-2`. If you do not want to specify a region, replace `<region>` with a wildcard `*`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> - `<region>` is the region where you want to create your cluster, for example, `us-west-2`. If you do not want to specify a region, replace `<region>` with a wildcard `*`, and put it in a `StringLike` block.
```
